Welcome to Slash Forward. Imagine witnessing a
celestial object touching down not too far from
your house. In the subsequent days you come to the
unfortunate realization that your parents are no
longer your parents, whether they’ve been replaced
or just taken over by some other entity. In your
zeal to return to some semblance of normalcy, you
attempt to uncover the cause of and solution to
your problems. Except, your options and resources
are severely limited and no one believes you,
because you’re just a dumb kid. What would you
do if you found yourself in such a situation,
and how would you go about conquering
the unknown? We’ll be examining this and,
in so doing, uncover a variety of helpful
rules and strategies that would serve you
well in a variety of alien invasion scenarios
by unpacking the events that unfold and mistakes
made in Tobe Hooper’s 1986 film Invaders
From Mars. Be sure to leave a comment to
share your own strategies for saving your home
town, while either including or excluding the
synchronous/concordant survival of your parents,
depending on your preference. Let’s get to it.
We open on George Gardner, taking in the
majesty of the universe with his son David.
As a NASA employee, he’s so enamored with the
poetry of the spheres that he demonstrates a
reckless disregard for his cardigan.
Ellen comes out to announce bedtime,
which is undermined by George, but they
otherwise have a good thing going here.
As they complete their evening rituals and
settle into bed, George gives David a fresh,
new penny for his collection -
an astronomer and a penny nerd?
This dude reeks of unquenchable sexual
energy, my friends. Then it’s off to bed.
The meteors calm down, but then the storms roll
in. As David goes to shut his window, he bears
witness to a gigantic, strobing meteor touching
down nearby, which sends him off screaming.
Unfortunately, by the time they return to
his room, it’s descended below the crest
of Copper Hill, so they disregard his concerns
and agree to take a look in the morning instead.
The evening’s excitement has dissipated by
the morning. However, David does begin to
wonder about his father’s unusually dazed
and confused demeanor. But George has a way
of really putting you at ease. Like
the way he refuses to address the
newly developed navel on his neck, and
how he’s taken to lacing his coffee with
crystal meth before guzzling the piping
hot brew like an absolute mad lad. Then,
when walking his boy to the bus, George does
confirm that he found something interesting on
the other side of the hill when he went to
check, but David decides he’s good for now.
At school, while the children prepare to
murder Mrs. McKeltch’s fresh marshland victims,
David gets into a frog-tossing competition.
As one would expect, it ends in bloodshed,
requiring David to be escorted to the school
nurse. McKeltch drags him in, hoping for some
reciprocal hen-pecking, but storms off in the face
of Miss Magnussen’s calm, compassionate demeanor.
After school, David returns home to find the house
open due to a malfunction with the automatic door.
With everything quiet, he naturally starts
watching a matinee showing of Lifeforce,
but his prankster mom interrupts him
before he can get to the naked parts.
He confides that dad had been acting like a
fairly odd bird that day, but they don’t both
begin to worry until he fails to show up that
evening. Ellen ends up calling the police who
decide to go check out Copper Hill to see if maybe
he’s out smoking a joint with the high schoolers.
But right after they leave,
George pops out with Ed,
his equally strange bro from work.
They hit happy hour hard as hell,
so Ed staggers off toward home sans vehicle. Then
the police return and they all monotonally comment
on David’s abundant imagination as regards the
prior’s evening’s celestial phenomenon. It’s not
until after dinner that Ellen takes notice of
George’s strange behavior. Then, in the night,
he comes in to steal David’s penny collection
while he pretends to be asleep. Later, the two
lovers stroll off into the mist, and David laments
what he recognizes to be the loss of his mother.
He gets confirmation of this the next morning when
Ellen pulls a little skin flap off her neck, and
has suddenly lost all her bacon skills. She takes
his reluctance as a sign he needs some fresh air,
and suggests they all have a little picnic
over the hill in the sand pit. David seems
to be struggling with the implications while
Ellen whips up a batch of her patented salted
beef patties for breakfast. They then offer
a strange goodbye as he heads out to the bus.
At lunch that day, he catches a private
conversation about some sort of destruction
scheduled for midnight, and that old daddy George
has been delegated to participate. He then peeps
on McKeltch for more juicy deets, picking up
on the fact that she’s sporting a fresh neck
bandage. Thirsty for news, he ventures into her
inner sanctum where he catches her feasting on
the class project. She tries to catch him, but her
bloated(swollen) belly is replete with frog meat.
He manages to find a sympathetic ear in Linda.
She attempts to build a rapport, but he insists
on inspecting her neck first. He finds it supple,
firm and unmarred, so he unpacks the story of what
led him to her office that day. When he finishes,
she giggles - confirming adults cannot be trusted.
But Linda attempts to leverage her nursing
authority to try to get a look at McKeltch’s
neck wound, and her responses are both
evasive and more aggressive than typical,
causing some concern. She’s shaken enough to send
David out the window with a key to her house where
she plans to meet him after school. After he
leaves, Linda brushes off Heather, who has come
looking for David and is sporting a similar
neck bandage, all but confirming his story.
David attempts an escape, but is soon
pinned down from all sides. Luckily,
there is an innocent van nearby with an open door.
Unluckily, it belongs to McKeltch and is occupied
by her collection of wayward animals. She drives
until arriving at a trailhead where she stops for
a vigorous afternoon hike. David follows her in
the hope that it will lead him to some intel. But,
the trail leads into a series of tunnels with
limited cover so he’s running a big risk here.
Regardless, he pursues her into the
steamy, inner sanctum. And it pays off,
because he peeps the master brain, which
communicates through a little dangly
bit that pops out of the victims’ neck
holes. McKeltch does a quick vowel check
before acknowledging David’s
presence. Fortunately,
the Martians were not ready
for the agility of youth.
He runs out of there and heads straight to Linda’s
house where they both lay low until danger passes.
When the coast is clear, he leads her back to
the tunnel, which is now missing. They must’ve
packed up and moved, just in case a young boy
were to return with the school nurse. With the
consequences of stealing away with a young boy
now weighing on her, she begins to succumb to
her doubts. But before she can return him to
his home, they witness Mr. Gardner directing a
couple of fresh victims over the hill, providing
them the chance to see how the sausage gets made.
Now they’re fully committed, so Linda heads into
town and stops at the first payphone to ring the
state police. But before she can, Mrs. McKeltch
rolls up in her bus and starts grabbing at David.
Linda scoops him up and diverts now to her
new plan, which is to call the FBI...from
the school. But they drive all the way out there
only to discover that the phone lines are dead,
and then the police roll up.
Now it’s David’s turn to come up with something,
and he leads Linda to his favorite hiding spot
when he wants to get away from it all - the boiler
room. The police eventually make it back to where
they are so David gives her a shhhhhhh...quiet
bitch. But they do get found, because they weren’t
really hiding. The officers weren’t expecting
it to be this easy, so they get overexcited and
fail to get their shots off before the ground
erupts with an intergalactic strobe light.
On the way out, Linda wants to flee the
whole town, but David is still encumbered
by a nostalgic attachment to his parents. So
his next movie is to head to the military base
where his dad works to get a meeting
with General Wilson. As it turns out,
being George Gardner’s son has some benefits
as they’re soon welcomed deep into the bosom
of the encampment. After a couple of quick
neck checks, they get to spilling the beans.
As they do so, George arrives with a bomb and the
aliens’ plan, whatever that may be, is initiated.
When we circle back, we find
the general incredulous,
but there were strange phenomena in the sky
the prior night, beyond the expected meteor
shower. Their radars were just unable to track
it so they wrote it off as an anomaly. Being a
man of measured action, the general needs
to think this over, so he sends them off
to the briefing room while he initiates a
routine security check on the NASA boys.
But at the mere mention of Copper Hill, they
draw down on him. Luckily, his right hand is
always ready, and he doesn’t hesitate to put
some ninjitsu on their bodies. Before they
can reveal anything of the Martian plan, their
overlord hits the self-destruct button on them.
In light of this new information, the general
then calls for a complete lockdown of the base.
Meanwhile, the truck is making its way
toward the launchpad, and completely
disregards the freeze order. The military and
NASA scientists then watch in horror as the
plan comes to fruition - keep the primates
from poking around on the surface of Mars.
Now looking to counterstrike, security
starts popping off and the General sends
troops to the school while requesting David
lead another group toward the tunnel openings.
Soon soldiers are swarming like
ants, pouring in all over the place,
knocking down fences and descending into
various tunnels and holes they happen to
find in the area. David thinks of his parents
and broaches the topic of diplomacy. But,
they’ve already reached into the toolbag
and selected a hammer, so it’s time for
the boys to step aside and let the men do
their work - frolicking around in the sand.
While underground, a couple of sentinels emerge
and it’s just too much for Dr. Weinstein. He
attempts to make contact and presumes they’ve
reached some level of understanding. But he
must’ve missed a couple contextual clues, because
they then vaporize his ass. On the plus side,
the soldiers do confirm the Martians are
susceptible to gunfire and explosion.
Topside, David has made the determination that
if he wants a chance at extracting his parents,
he has no real choice other than to go in the one
way they know is possible, and he goes for it.
This prompts the men to attempt to blast their way
in, winching themselves out of the twirling mass,
but leaving behind an explosive payload. This
provides a gaping hole the men may enter.
Meanwhile, apparently unaware of the excitement
above, David watches in horror as a soldier
resting his head on a silicone ball sack has his
control module inserted. David is then brought
before the supreme intelligence, who he tries to
reason with in order to secure the return of his
loved ones. But these visitors from the heavens
are unconcerned with the petty, human concept of
personal relationships. With his anger boiling
over, David penny sacks McKeltch straight into a
Martian’s mouth, who decides not to overlook its
gifted meal as David runs back for the tunnels.
David runs across a couple of guards, and
observes how they prep their vaporizers.
They then cross paths with the gun boys who
take them out. David leads them back to the
needle machine where it’s open season on killing
Martians - who mostly stand around and take it,
making for a quick victory. After
saving Linda from penetration,
they set some explosive charges and attempt to
get out of there before the ship takes off. They
find the way to be blocked, but David has the
idea to use the alien tech to regape the hole.
Remembering that he learned it’s fueled by copper,
we get a callback to David’s rare penny from the
beginning of the movie - and he uses his greasy
little fingers to greedily cram it into the slot.
As they filter out, he is distracted
by the reappearance of his parents,
who try to convince him that hanging
out in tunnels is the cool thing to do.
In a turn of good fortune, him
running from them also leads them
out of the blast radius. The explosion of the
ship then also deactivates their neck needles.
But David wakes up suddenly, confused and scared.
After a quick confirmation that he’s in the
real world, they get him calm and back in bed.
But then, like a true hustler, ya
boi turns his dreams into reality.
How delightfully nostalgic that was - a
Golun-Globus produced Tobe Hooper film.
It can barely get more 80s than that. As we look
through the lessons learned here, we’re going to
be walking away with a lot of general lessons that
will be useful in everyday life. Because here,
we’re mainly looking at a problem of persuasion.
We all know that a simple grade-schooler would
be unable to handle a Martian horde on his own.
Success is really dependent on his ability to
unlock his still-burgeoning charisma to bring
people on board with him. It’s less about brute
force and figuring how to kill aliens, and more
about convincing others that there is a problem
to address and how to curry favor and marshal the
forces in order to save all that they hold dear.
The first step here is recognition. He saw
something unusual in the night sky, but gets no
confirmation of what it was. George just agrees to
take a look in the morning. When David comes down,
there is evidence that George had already been
there. He doesn’t mention it specifically until
later, but he is missing one of his loafers,
implying that he lost the other in a muddy
hike over the hill. This should be a moment
of peak curiosity and information gathering.
Why not casually inquire about their plan for
checking out the earthbound meteor? In the course
of this questioning it may become more apparently
obvious that something is wrong with your dad.
With only minimal conversation, there were clear
indicators and he was obviously having a hard time
keeping it together. Pressing the conversation
and forcing him into more interaction would go
a long way in confirming any suspicions. The main
thing to take away from this is to always be wary
of a dad with an inconsistent routine. George has
likely been wearing the same clothes, telling the
same jokes and engaging in the same morning
ritual for at least the last ten years. Any
sudden change alone is cause for suspicion, but
the apathy toward the loss of his leather house
shoe and clear indication of unspecified physical
trauma should be raising significant alarms.
This is confirmed later when a clear break in his
schedule was worrisome enough to prompt Ellen to
call the police. The police are already fairly
strange on their own, but when they come back
holding their necks, we now have a second
indicator that is stronger than the first
in that it goes beyond simple behavioral
observation. With George, there was a break
in routine, but what of the other town weirdos?
You would have to develop some sort of method
to gauge strangeness, which would rely too
heavily on subjective measures. However,
with this new objective physical indicator you’re
in business. The business of inspecting necks.
Of course, in order for this to be meaningful, you
would have to have the mental grit to push through
the coping stages to reach Acceptance as quickly
as possible. David’s inability to do this, despite
the abundance of evidence early on, resulted in
him losing his mother to the horde. The primary
negative impact of this is the fact that he does
not appear to have any other trustworthy adults in
his social circle. So now, he has the disadvantage
of trying to figure out who he can confide in.
As a child approaching adults, this can be very
intimidating and presents a high likelihood of
failure since you will be starting from a negative
position as, aside from the risk of choosing
the wrong one to approach, most adults would be
unlikely to take you seriously in the first place.
However, this could be turned to your advantage.
As you begin to gather intel and try to ascertain
exactly what the threat is, you may find yourself
with greater opportunities to enter areas that may
be off limits to others by presenting yourself as
an unassuming child. This is an important step,
because the more specifics you have, the more
believable your story will be when others hear it.
The key characteristic here is to get to the point
where you know and accept that something is wrong,
but pretend like it’s all good. Feigning
ignorance, or playing stupid, is a strong
strategy. Properly employed, it will allow you
to overstep and risk mistakes while minimizing
negative outcomes as your actions will likely
be interpreted as an innocent misunderstanding.
However, this does require you not to plunge too
deep. When David pursues McKeltch, he follows
her into her closet. Instead of observing from
the doorway where he can slip away or play off
his presence as just seeking to ask her a quick
question, he ventures well into the closet with
no cover. Once she turns around, he’s toast. So,
unless he intended to physically confront her,
there is no reason for him to delve this
far. After he is sighted, his cover is now
blown. Everything from this point must be full
espionage. He’s lost both the element of surprise,
and his ability to wander about appearing
as a babe in the woods, so to speak.
Now finding an ally is of the utmost importance.
David happening upon Linda, and the path they took
toward solidarity was, ultimately, a sequence of
circumstances that unfolded through sheer luck.
Ideally, you would have some familiarity with the
person you approach first. I would’ve liked for
David to have carved out a little time beforehand
to explore what was on the other side of Copper
Hill. Ultimately it turned out there was nothing
to see other than a sand pit, so that may not have
helped him, but he didn’t know that at the time.
If you’re thinking ahead and taking steps toward
achieving your goal, you should really be focused
on finding a way to shine a light on the dangers
you’ve identified. Whoever you approach is going
to have to swallow a humdinger of a story (pill
that could choke a horse). Your best approach
is to find some innocuous way to get them to a
point where they see what you’ve seen so
they have no choice but to believe you.
In this case, he lucked into the
neck bandage thing. But if there
hadn’t been more than one of them, this
would be a meaningless detail. Then,
the tunnel entrance disappearing was
another huge miss. Everything was on
the verge of falling apart until they happened
to bear witness to an actual abduction. This
was a huge turning point that almost didn’t
happen due to David’s lack of preparation.
In regards to his actual intel
gathering, this was also high risk
and sloppy. The smooth tunnels provided no
cover or places to hide. He basically had
to stand out in the open the entire
time. But, in terms of actual intel,
the trip was entirely wasted. He learned that
the Martians are very vascular, but slow,
which is good to know. The leader of the group
is a giant, squishy brain, which would be very
susceptible to physical damage. However, it speaks
in a Martian language that he can’t understand,
and then he doesn’t actually relay any of the
other information to anyone else throughout the
movie. After all the time and effort that goes
into finding and confiding in an accomplice,
you have to then also bring them into the
loop. Everyone should be working off of the
same information, just in case the group gets
split up or some other hardship befalls you.
At this point, the best option is likely to get
out of town entirely so you can get a broader
perspective on what’s going on and possible next
steps. Instead of doing this, David wants to try
to find his mom and dad, which should be a
huge mistake. You have to deal with the core
problem before moving on to secondary issues.
Especially when the core problem involves your
parents’ brains being completely overrun. This
happens to work out in their favor, yet again,
because George works for NASA at a base that
is independently secured by Marine forces.
He was able to bring them on his side
quickly when the pod folks basically
showed their whole asses right in front of the
General just before a full display of their power
and intent went off right in their faces. This
is highly situational and lucky on their part.
Again, not knowing who has been taken over,
but knowing the police have been infiltrated,
you would be better off moving out of town to
find help. Of course, you would still be tasked
with convincing them of the problem. It may be of
benefit to grab you one of those schoolchildren
to take along as evidence in case you have
trouble convincing outsiders of your plight.
Once you have returned in force,
there was a question of negotiation
vs aggression. It’s understandable that David
was concerned for the well being of his parents,
but the Martians had shown
nothing but aggression so far.
This is further confirmed by Weinstein’s fate
in the tunnels. There is clearly no interest
in communication. Although, in fairness,
he was talking to a couple of grunts.
They are not the decision makers. But
what are the odds of getting a meeting
with the supreme intelligence if every other
Martian you run across tries to vaporize you?
No, this was basically the correct strat - they
went in hard and got the job done in the end.
The only real criticism I would have here is that
they pulled back too soon. I’m not sure why the
primary objective was to detonate the entire
ship, as it was likely full of useful alien
technology - imagine if we had gotten smart phones
ten years earlier where we’d be now. They should
have stuck to the guns and not let up as easily
as they did. Any veteran Contra player knows that
this is only the master brain’s first phase. There
will likely be one to three more phases after
this. If you have sufficient ammo and patience,
you’ll eventually make your way through them all,
eliminating the threat and retaining all
the precious technology for yourself.
Finally, there’s the question of
whether any of this matters at all,
since David ultimately woke up, revealing this
to be a dream. To that, I would have to say
this obviously matters. The dream was a dry run.
When he woke up the loop initiated in real life.
So if he had been introspective about his faults
he was presented a chance to correct everything.
Given the state of the news recently, I find
it hard to imagine that anyone would dismiss
the importance of this type of exercise.
You are free to do so at your own peril.
Before we go, I’d like to give a huge thanks to
my donors, memorialized in the hall of headshots.
I have a website set up where you can
support the channel through donations or
merch. Any donation unlocks uncensored movie
reviews of Lifeforce and Under the Skin,
with others to be added over
time. If you enjoyed the video,
I’d love for you to become a part of the
channel by subscribing. Thanks for watching.